---
layout: post
title: A teacher's Journey to Data Analyst
date: 2024-12-10
description: How it all started
tags: data analytics teacher career change
categories: career-transition
---

British English please
Of course, here's the revised version in British English:

Hello, my name is Alejandra, but people call me Alex or Ale (pronounced "ah-leh" in Spanish).

In this post, I'll share a bit about myself and my journey to becoming a Data Analyst.

I have a background in Marine Biology, and it was during the last year of my bachelor's studies that my interest in Data Analysis was sparked. We learnt about statistics and how to analyse biological data. As I conducted research for my honours thesis, I started developing my skills in R programming.

I followed the research path and decided to pursue a PhD in visual ecology at the University of Queensland in Australia, where I further honed my data analysis, statistics, data visualisation, and R programming skills.

I loved doing marine biology research in Australia; it was truly a privilege. I explored wonderful places during my studies and met amazing people. However, sometimes unexpected things happen, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, and the plans you had can change without warning.

I moved back to my home country, Mexico, and started over. I knew that as much as I loved doing research, it was not something I wanted to do for the rest of my career. Nonetheless, I needed a job, and I was lucky enough to find one within three months, starting as a teacher in a private high school.

I began teaching Geography, then Ecology, and finally the elective Critical Thinking. I didn't plan on teaching for long—maybe just one or two years—but once again, things didn't go as expected, and here I am, four years into teaching.

This job is demanding, but honestly, I got through a very difficult time thanks to my students. They might not know it, but showing up, talking to them, teaching them, and learning from them really helped me when I was going through an emotional rollercoaster. I should also thank my amazing therapist, who helped me when I felt lost. What I can tell you from this experience is to be kind to everyone; you don't know what they are going through. Even when they seem happy, they might be fighting some emotional battles.

Let's go back to the main topic, why to become a Data Analyst? Well, why not? As I mentioned before, I was fascinated by statistics since I was an undergrad,  I was something that I was good at and I was quickly to learn. I would say that if you study something related to natural science, you need to learn statistics, we use it to prove that the data from our experiments are reliable and might or not be significant. Thanks to my formal education I could confidently say that I am competent in data visualisation, spreadsheets, statistics, analysing data, R programming, data cleaning, and data collection.

I could also say that my experience in teaching and supervising students, both at secondary and tertiary education, has help me to develop some of the non-technical skills you need to be a good data analyst. Problem solving, communicating to diverse audiences, writing, attention to detail, and critical thinking.

As I started to take more seriously my goal to become a Data Analyst, I decided to purchased a [DataCamp](https://www.datacamp.com/) membership to learn some of the skill I needed, such as SQL anda Data Visualisation in PowerBI and Tableu, and to brush up my Spreadsheet skills. I know that there are free sources that you can find on YouTube and other places, but for me, it is best to find the information I needed in one place, at least to know where to start. 

Then I started to listen some podcast on Spotify that talked about transitioning to a Data Analyst role, such as the [Data Career Podcast](https://datacareerpodcast.com/) with Avery Smith, [Carreras Científicas Alternativas](https://carrerascientificasalternativas.com/podcast-entrevistas/) (in Spanish) with Manolo Castellano, [Super Data Science: ML & AI Podcast with Jon Krohn](https://www.superdatascience.com/podcast) and [Mavens of Data](https://mavenanalytics.io/mavens-of-data) with the team Of Maven Analytics. The more I got into it, I learnt that in order to land a job, I needed to work on my portfolio, build projects, and network. So here I am, it is almost the end of the year and I want to step up my game, and that is why I decided to work on my webpage, my portfolio, and be more active on LinkedIn. 

Thanks for reading this blog, and if you want to connect with me, you can find my on [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/alejandralopezgalan/) or any of my socials. 







