---
layout: post
title: Holidays in Germany
date: 2025-03-06
description: December holidays and festive experiences
tags: Holidays Germany Europe Christmas Travel 
categories: life-experiences
---

It's March 2025, and I've been wanting to write a blog about my past winter holidays in Germany, but work as a teacher hasn't left me much spare time to continue with my blog. Nevertheless, I've finally organised my day to write, and here I am.

In December 2024, I had the incredible opportunity to visit Germany for the first time. The holiday season made it even more special, with festive markets and rich cultural experiences. I landed at Munich International Airport, where my friend picked me up, and we took the train to Deggendorf, where we stayed for the two weeks I had for my holidays. She had already been living there for a couple of months, and thankfully she knew how to get around the area and helped me get everything I needed for the holidays. 

One of the most memorable parts of my trip was visiting the famous Christmas markets. It was my first time experiencing them, and honestly, words cannot describe how much I loved them. The first Christmas market I went to was in Deggendorf, it was small but beautiful. I indulged in Baumstriezel filled with chocolate and topped with sweet cinnamon, and mulled wine (Glühwein). After that day, I had Glühwein at every Christmas market I visited.

<div class="row justify-content-sm-center">
    <div class="col-sm-4 mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid path="assets/img/blog2-deggendorf-market.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm-6 mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid path="assets/img/blog2-deggendorf-market-view.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Enjoying Baumstriezel and Glühwein at Deggendorf Christmas market.
</div>

We travelled by train every time we went out, and I thoroughly enjoyed the view during the journey. It was relaxing, and although my knowledge of the German language was almost zero, my partner did a superb job of getting us wherever we needed to be. However, I didn't like that the trains were not always on time—aren't Germans known for their punctuality?

Passau was the second city we visited, and at the Christmas market, there was a kissing station. To keep up with the tradition, my partner and I kissed under the mistletoe

<div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm-4 mt-2 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/blog2-passau.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm-4 mt-2 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/blog2-passau-market.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Drinking Glühwein at Passau Christmas market.
</div>

The third place we visited was Regensburg. We took a bus to visit the Walhalla temple, which resembles the Parthenon in Athens. The temple and the view were majestic, as was St. Peter's Cathedral with its Gothic architectural style.
<div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/blog2-walhalla1.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/blog2-walhalla-view.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/blog2-st-peter-cathedral.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Walhalla temple, the view from the temple, and St. Peter's Cathedral in Regensburg.
</div>

The next city we visited was Salzburg. We had the chance to visit the Hohensalzburg Fortress, one of the largest and oldest museums for art and cultural history in Salzburg. It is a must-visit place if you enjoy learning about history, medieval collections, and war.
<div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/blog2-museum-salzburg.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/blog2-castle.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/blog2-salzburg.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Exhibition view "Weapons in the Middle Ages" at the Fortress Museum, a photo from Hohensalzburg Fortress, and the Salzach river in Salzburg.
</div>

Our next day trip was to Dachau, where the first and longest-operating Nazi concentration camp was built. We visited the Concentration Camp Memorial, and it was a unique experience. In this museum, we learned about Nazi propaganda, entered the bunkers used for torture, the crematorium, the gas chamber, and through photos, we learned about the atrocities and the horrible conditions the prisoners endured. In my opinion, it is an experience that everyone should have to learn not only about history and war, but to understand what humans are capable of doing to our own species. I don't know if it was because the weather was really cold that day, but I felt an eerie energy the whole time I was in the museum.
<div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/blog2-dachau3.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/blog2-dachau2.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/blog2-dachau.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Camp road and the reconstructed barracks, bunkers used to keep special prisoners, ovens inside the crematorium at the Dachau concentration camp.
</div>

We continued our trip in Nuremberg, another city well-known for its history, as the Nuremberg Trials were held there. After the war, Allied powers—the United States, Great Britain, France, and the Soviet Union—came together to form the International Military Tribunal (IMT), and the Nazi German leaders stood trial for crimes against peace, war crimes, crimes against humanity, and conspiracy to commit any of the foregoing crimes. We decided to take this trip to enjoy the view of the city and took a tourist train to get to know this beautiful city better. One thing I remember from this place is that it is also famous for its Nuremberg sausages, or Nürnberger Rostbratwurst, which are German pork sausages known for their small size and smoky flavour. I am a vegetarian though, so I did not try them.
<div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm-3 mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/blog2-nuremberg.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm-4 mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/blog2-nuremberg2.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm-4 mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/blog2-nuremberg3.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    View of the Pegnitz River, St. Sebaldus Church, and Glühwein at Nuremberg.
</div>

Sadly, our vacation came to an end, and the last city we visited was Munich. I couldn't leave without having more Glühwein and a pretzel to finish this wonderful and memorable trip around Bavarian cities. I hope I can visit Germany again and enjoy everything it has to offer tourists like myself. I would definitely go again at Christmas, as it is my favourite time of the year, and they truly embrace the Christmas spirit. Tschüss Deutschland.
<div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/blog2-munich.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/blog2-munichgluwein.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/blog2-pretzel.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Munich at night, more Glühwein, and me enjoying a Pretzel from the Rischart Cafe on Marienplatz.
</div>
